Blog post for sprint 157, request show redesign (#448)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2024-01-26-revamping-the-build-status-page-and-introducing-the-dark-mode.md

---
layout: post

> title: Revamping the Build Status Page and Introducing the Dark Mode

Reviewer: Here and for every instance: should we mention it is the **Request** Build Results tab page for completeness?

Author: Agree.

I didn't add the "tab" word. But I rephrased the text to mention builds for a request, not for a package. Please take a look again.

category: development
image: images/posts/sprint_157/page_image_revamping_build_results.png
---

The beginning of the year has started strong in OBS.
We are glad to be back to you in a new year with a blog post full of interesting updates, most of them improving our Request page.
Take a seat, a fresh breath, and enjoy!

{% include partials/_series-of-posts-about-request-redesign.md %}

### Revamping the Build Status Page

You build your package in OBS and use a combination of repositories and architectures.

> After a while you come back to the page the see the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a while you come back to the page to see the results.
```

Author: Applied. Thanks!

> And you miss a general overview of the status of all build results, and also filtering the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And you miss a general overview of the status of  the build results of the packages that a Request is targeting, and also filtering those results.
```

Author: Sure. I already modified the text, as mentioned in the comment above.

Reviewer: I see, perfect :+1:

There you have it!
Now you can use the revamped Request Build Status page.
Things get clear now!

![Revamping the Request Build Status Page](/images/posts/sprint_157/revamping-build-status-page.png)

### Summary Graph for rpmlint Linter Results

The same as for the Request Build Status page applies to the rpmlint linter logs page.
You miss an overview of the errors returned by the linter, so you don't have to read the file.
Again, there you have it!
Now, every time there is an error found in a rpmlint log, you will be shown a graphic with those errors and their criticity level (a.k.a. Badness punctuation).

![Summary Graph for rpmlint Linter Results](/images/posts/sprint_157/rpmlint-linter-results.png)

### Introducing the Dark Mode

We are always happy to receive external contributions.

> These lasts weeks we received a very special one, comming from Moisés.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These lasts weeks we received a very special one, coming from [Moisés](https://github.com/mdeniz).
```

Author: Applied. Thanks!

He already worked for OBS a while ago, and he came with the strength of proposing a long requested feature: introducing dark mode pages.

> Enter the beta program configuration page, enable the "Color Theming" beta flag, and take a look.

Reviewer: Should we hint a little bit about how to play with it? Something short like:
- Go to your user profile page
- Edit the profile
- Change the Theme
- Save and reload the page

Author: Currently we only have the beta feature toggle. We are not able to change the Theme yet.

Maybe you are talking about the Theme toggle of this [PR](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/pull/15523)?

Reviewer: Nope, I'm talking about the initial implementation from https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/pull/15461: the second picture from the PR description is the one I'm talking about.

Reviewer: ![dark-theme-switch](https://github.com/openSUSE/obs-landing/assets/7080830/922a9fd8-b272-4b42-8a7c-eb479e66b476)

Author: You are right. I modified a couple of sentences and created a list with the steps you proposed. Please take a look again.

---
layout: post
title: Revamping the Request Build Status Page and Introducing the Dark Mode
category: development
image: images/posts/sprint_157/page_image_revamping_build_results.png
---

The beginning of the year has started strong in OBS.
We are glad to be back to you in a new year with a blog post full of interesting updates, most of them improving our Request page.
Take a seat, a fresh breath, and enjoy!

{% include partials/_series-of-posts-about-request-redesign.md %}

### Revamping the Request Build Status Page

You create a request to modify a package in OBS and use a combination of repositories and architectures.

> After a while you come back to the page to see the build results of the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a while, you come back to the page to see the build results of the request.
```

Author: Applied.

And you miss a general overview of the status of all build results, and also filtering the results.
There you have it!
Now you can use the revamped Request Build Status page.

> Things get clear now!

Reviewer 2: This would read better:

```suggestion
Things are clear now!
```

Author: Applied.

![Revamping the Request Build Status Page](/images/posts/sprint_157/revamping-build-status-page.png)

### Summary Graph for rpmlint Linter Results

The same as for the Request Build Status page applies to the rpmlint linter logs page.
You miss an overview of the errors returned by the linter, so you don't have to read the file.
Again, there you have it!

> Now, every time there is an error found in a rpmlint log, you will be shown a graphic with those errors and their criticity level (a.k.a. Badness punctuation).

Reviewer 2: I never heard of the word _criticity_ and after a quick search online, it doesn't seem to exist. How about _error level_? If not, _criticality_ would be an option too.

Author: I used _error level_.

![Summary Graph for rpmlint Linter Results](/images/posts/sprint_157/rpmlint-linter-results.png)

### Introducing the Dark Mode

We are always happy to receive external contributions.

> These lasts weeks we received a very special one, coming from [Moisés](https://github.com/mdeniz).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These lasts weeks, we received a very special one, coming from [Moisés](https://github.com/mdeniz).
```

Author: Applied.

> He already worked for OBS a while ago, and he came with the strength of proposing a long requested feature: introducing dark mode pages.

Reviewer 2: This would read better:

```suggestion
He already worked for OBS a while ago, and he came back by proposing a long requested feature: introducing dark mode pages.
```

Author: Applied.

In first instance, enter the beta program configuration page and enable the "Color Theming" beta flag.
Now you can select the theme:

>    * Go to your user profile, clicking on your avatar

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should explain what the `system` option is? I don't know if it's clear to all users.

Author: Even if the `system` option stays for long time, the form could be improved to explain the different Theme options. That's why I didn't want to dig into details in the blog post. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Good point, this can stay as it is.
